#1.03 Data Types

##1.3.1 Why Data Types
In computer, everything is in binary form as the transistors only know off (0) and on(1). Single 0 or 1 in computer is called as a bit. We need a way to define how the data are represented in binary form, otherwise it is not possible for computer to process them. 

In Java, we have many data types (or even define ourselves from base types), but those we use frequently are :

* int - integer, natural number, that occupies 32 bits of memory, so it ranges from -2^31 to 2^31 - 1
* double - number with decimals, occupies 64 bits
* char - Single letter or sign, like 'a', ';', '1'

Now, let's try the following code:
```Java
public static void main (String [] args) {
	System.out.println(1+1);
}
```

Execute the program and see what happens to the console! Try to replace the 1 with different numbers and see the magic. 


##1.3.2 Mathematical Operators
There are some mathematical operators provided by Java natively:

* `+` - Addition
* `-` - Subtraction
* `*` - Multiplication
* `/` - Division
* `%` - Remainder

Java is brilliant enough to know multiplication/division/remainder come first before addition/subtraction. If case of equal level of operations are on the same line, you need to put bracket to indicate the priority.

It is also possible to use + on String. Which the compiler does is, concate everything to a String. 

Refer to this :
```Java
System.out.println(“One = ” + 1) );
```
1 is an integer. In this situation, it will be converted into String and combined with "One = ".

##1.3.3 Fusing Mathematical Operators with String
It is important to know that, when dealing with String, the compiler will consider everything as String, if you don't put bracket explicitly. 

Case 1 :
```Java
System.out.println(“ 1 + 1 = ” + 1 + 1 );
```
will give 1 + 1 = 1 + 1. 

Case 2 :
```Java
System.out.println(“ 1 + 1 = ” + (1 + 1) );
```
will give 1 + 1 = 2.

##Exercise
Write the code that display the following in the console

* `123 + 567 = 690`
* `875 / 145 = 6.0344827586206895`
* `The remainder of 9 divided by 2 is 1.`