#1.06 Character & the Naughty String

##1.6.1 Character
Character is the basic unit for text. Here is how it can be declared
```Java
char c = 'A'
```
Unlike String uses " ", it uses ' '. 

It can be converted to integer or another way around, if needed. Such conversion of a data type to another data type is called as typecasting. 

For the conversion table, please refer to here. It is actually the encoding of letters in your computer.

##1.6.2 Special Characters
Now, try to print a string that contains " or \. You will find Eclipse throws you syntax error! The reason is " and \ are special characters reserved for other usages. To solve this issue, we add an extra \ to tell the compiler.
```Java
String s1 = "My name is "kingkingyyk""; //error
String s2 = "My name is \kingkingyyk\"; //error
String s3 = "My name is \"kingkingyyk\""; // works good
String s4 = "My name is \\kingkingyyk\\"; // works good
```
This applies for both character and String.

##1.6.3 Useful String functions
* .length() -> Gives you the length of string
```Java
String someStr = "ABC";
int strLength = someStr.length();
System.out.println(strLength); // prints 3 in the console.
```
* .substring( int startIndex, int endIndex ) -> Gives you the part of string
```Java
String someStr = "123ABCDEFGHIJKL";
String first3 = someStr.substring(0, 3);
String last3 = someStr.substring( someStr.length()-3, someStr.length() );
System.out.println(first3); // prints 123 in the console.
System.out.println(last3); // prints JKL in the console.
```

char | 1 | 2 | 3 | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L
- | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -
Index | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14

* .charAt( int position ) -> returns char at position
```Java
String someStr = "123ABCDEFGHIJKL";
char c = someStr.charAt(3);
System.out.println(c); // prints A in the console.
```

##Exercise
*Modified from USACO -> Your Ride is Here*

Some day in future, the world is going to end. Good news : We have set up base at Mars and human can live there. Bad news : The spaceship is not enough to fit so many escapers. The spaceship attendant leader has decided a way to determine who shouldn’t board on. 

The rule is as follow : Everybody who wants board on the spaceship should enter 3 characters into a program, where the program will get the sum of the characters (use ASCII value) and modulus (or remainder) of 2. Who got the answer 0 will be able to escape to Mars, while those who got 1 will have to stay on the Earth until next spaceship come. 

As the software engineer, you are required to write such program that display the sum of the characters (use ASCII value) and the modulus / remainder of 2 of the value. 

* Assume the input of minimum 3 characters is handled in user interface, so you don’t have to care if the input is less than or equal to 2 characters
* If more than 3 characters are entered, only take the first 3 characters into the calculation.
