#1.10 Array, the Fundamental of Data Structure

##10.1 The Real Life Problem
Write a program that accepts 3 names from user, then display them in reverse input order.

Example Input :

```Java
Enter the name #1 : Pitbull
Enter the name #2 : Taylor Swift
Enter the name #3 : Adele
```

Example Output :
```
Name from reverse…
Adele
Taylor Swift
Pitbull
```

I bet you will create 3 String variables, store the input into them and display. 

Here is the real challenge: Accepts 1000 names! Now you need 1000 variables.

##1.10.2 Variable vs Array
Array is our savior. Array is a matrix that allows you to store data and the reference point of data is achieved with array name and index. Remember this?

char | 1 | 2 | 3 | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L
- | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -
Index | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14

String is actually an array of characters! By calling charAt method with position index, the index gets passed into the char array of the String and the value will be returned to you. Array index starts at 0 and ends at length - 1.

First, let's see how variable and data is referred in memory. (0x means hexadecimal, aka base-16)

Variable Name|Memory Location|Value
-|-|-
a|0x000011|1234

By referring a, the computer will get the value at 0x0x000011.

Now, array with size of 3 looks like this :


Array Name [Index]|Memory Location|Value
-|-|-
a[0]|0x000011|1234
a[1]|0x000012|5678
a[2]|0x000013|9999

##10.3 Array Declaration & Usage
We can declare / create the array like this :
```Java
double [] d; // declare a double array
String [] str = new String[100]; // create a String array with size 100.
int [] i = new int[1234]; // create a String array with size 1234.
int isize = i.length; // get the size of the array i.
int [] i2 = new int [isize]; //Create an integer array with size of isize.
String [] str2 = {"Hello","booh!"}; //create an array with default values. 
```
This is how we assign value to array[index]:
```Java
i2[0] = 2;
i2[1] = 3;
str[5] = "Hello";
```
You also can assign variable or even array[index] into the array.

Now you should be able to create the program that accepts 1000 names! (Hint : Put the for loop counter as your array index)

##10.4 Multidimensional Array
Java also supports multidimensional array. Let's see how a 2D array looks like:
```Java
int [][] i = new int[1234][12];
i[0][1] = 30;
```
The usage is identical to single dimensional array. If you want to create your own 2D array using 1D array, refer the following code:
```Java
int [] i = new int[1234*12];
i[0*1234+1] = 30;
```
But since Java provide it natively, it is pointless to create your own over the built-in syntax. Hence, this is just a concept for you on how multidimensional array is implemented in the backend.

##Exercise
Find out the first 10 prime numbers and store them into an array. After that, display them in form of :

The #1 prime number is 2. 

The #2 prime number is 3. 

…… 

Hint: <a href="http://www.counton.org/explorer/primes/checking-if-a-number-is-prime/" target="_blank">How to check a number is prime?</a>