#1.11 Methods & Functions

Now it is the time to unveil what really is the public static void main (String [] args) in a program. In Java, it is called as method, but in some other languages, it is called as function. 

We have used System.out.println(), .length(), .split() and more. These are the methods provided by Java libraries natively. We can build our own method, too. 

A frequent question that is asked by programming amateur : Why can’t I squeeze all instruction into a single method? Why would I want to separate my code into separate methods?

* Reusability. Think of System.out.println, if we were to code it manually, wouldn’t it be very troublesome? The code that does the same thing will exist everywhere!
* Maintainability. If I change the code in a method, then the change will apply to all places, because all of them are referring to that method. Otherwise you have to change every copy of the code in your program.

Library is basically a collection of methods that aid us in doing something. String is a built-in library that gives us the implementation of char array. Scanner is the built-in library that gives us the functionality to get the input from console. There are way more useful libraries, and we shall talk about them later. 

The method can be dissected as follow (Don't worry if you don't understand! We have an example to look at, later) :
```Java
public static void main (String [] args) {
}
```

* public -> The encapsulation scope of the method. We shall talk them in the section Object Oriented Programming section.
* static -> Owning of the method. Again, it will be covered in Object Oriented Programming section.
* void -> The return type of the method. You can return any type as you like.
* main -> The name for the method. The limitation is identical to variable naming.
(String [] args) -> Defines the argument that the method requires.
* Lastly, don't forget the curly brackets! :)

*Drum rolls* Here comes the example : Write a function that checks whether the given number is a prime number or not.

* First, identify what is the input and output of the method.
    * The input is integer, in this case, as we need to have the number to check with.
    * The output is boolean. We check whether it is a prime or not (true/false)
* Second, write the method block. Leave our main method alone! You can write it on top our main method. So we have this now :
```Java
public static boolean isPrime (int num) {
}

public static void main (String [] args) {
}
```
* Write the logic in the method.
```Java
public static boolean isPrime (int num) {
	double sqrt=Math.sqrt(num); //Get the square root of the number.
	if (num<=1) return false; //filter out the number lesser than 1.
	else {
		for (int i=2;i<=sqrt;i++) if (num%i==0) return false;
	}
	return true;
}
```
Now we can use our isPrime method in main method.
```Java
public static void main (String [] args) {
	int [] ints={1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10};
	for (int i=0;i<ints.length;i++) System.out.println(ints[i]+" is a prime number? "+isPrime(ints[i]))
}
```