#3.2 Memorization

##3.2.1 Real World Problem
Now, it is time to get the actual No. 14 solved! If we use the iterative or recursive approach in the actual problem, the program will run forever as the problem is too large. The key to solve this is memoization. 

The concept is to store the result of subproblems so that we can use it in larger problem without recalculating again. It is the foundation of dynamic programming, but at this stage, we shall just have some brief discussions. 

Now, take a look if we put \(n = 8\), the chain would be :

First loop : \(1\)

Second loop : \(2 → 1\)

Third loop : \(3 → 10 → 5 → 16 → 8 → 4 → 2 → 1\)

Forth loop : \(4 → 2 → 1\)

....

Eighth loop : \(8 → 4 → 2 → 1\)

There are so many repetition of \(2 → 1\), \(4 → 2 → 1\), \(8 → 4 → 2 → 1\), isn't that we are wasting processing cycle to calculate the chain count that we have calculated earlier?

##3.2.2 Data Storage Model
Now, we need to think of a way to store the data. Since our subject is naive number, we can happily apply that in array index, directly. Now, I'll introduce the version with memoization.

```Java
public class euler {
	
	public static int [] dp=new int [1000001]; //store the chain count...
	
	public static void main (String [] abc) {
		int maxStartingNum=0;
		long maxChain=0;
		dp[1]=1; // f(1) = 1
		for (int i=1;i<10000001;i++) { //1 - 1 million
			long number=i;
			int currChain=1;
			while (true) {
				if (number<=1000000 && dp[(int)number]!=0) {
					//number less than the startingnumber can be store,
					//so we check whether we can reuse back the previous
					//calculated chain count or not.
					currChain+=dp[(int)number];
					//reuse!
					break;
				}
				if (number%2==0) {
					number=number/2;
				} else {
					number=3*number+1;
				}
				currChain++;
			}
			dp[i]=currChain;
			if (currChain>maxChain) {
				maxChain=currChain;
				maxStartingNum=i;
			}
		}
		System.out.println(maxStartingNum);
	}
}
```
Run it, your computer will give the result directly.

##3.2.3 What is really happening?
On every new problem (number) we encountered, we get the chain count from the problem(number) we solved earlier.

* First loop : \(1\), loop count = 1
* Second loop : \(2 → (Already \,solved \,in \,first \,loop)\), loop count = 2
    * Solved : \(1, 2\)
* Third loop : \(3 → 10 → 5 → 16 → 8 → 4 → (Already \,solved \,in \,second \,loop)\), loop count = 7
    * Solved : \(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 16\)
* Forth loop : \((Already \,solved \,in \,third \,loop)\), loop count = 1
    * Solved : \(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 16\)
* Eighth loop : \((Already \,solved \,in \,third \,loop)\), loop count = 1
    * Solved : \(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 16\)

##3.2.4 Flavours
There are two ways to implement memoization; **bottom-up** and **top-down**. The one I have demonstrated is bottom-up, which is to build the solution table from subproblems. Top-down is commonly used with recursion. 

Top-down is more straight-forward and easier to implement. It also run faster than bottom-up as potentially there are some subproblems not needed in computing the final solution.

##Exercise
Use top-down + recursion to solve the problem above.