#3.4 Where is My Water?

Searching is very useful for us to find the existence of value or result.

##3.4.1 Linear Search
The most basic type of search, involves checking through the data structure until the value that we want.
```Java
int [] abc={12,3,4,5,76,7,7,1};
	int index=-1;
	int numberToSearch=7;
		for (int i=0;i<abc.length;i++) {
	    if (abc[i]==numberToSearch) {
		index=i;
		break; //result found, break the loop.
    }
}
System.out.println(numberToSearch+" is at position ["+index+"].");
```

!!! NOTE

    What happen if we have 2 or more values in the array? The code above will give you the index of the first occurrence.

    Try to modify the code such that it returns the index of last occurrence. 


In real life cases, getting the first occurrence or last occurrence is highly dependent on the question you want to solve.

The time complexity for this is \(O(n)\), if we have n values in the data set we want to find, then we need to go through n values (n checking operations) before we can get our index. 

If one checking requires 1 ns, then 10000 values will take 10000 ns!

You might argue, hey, what if my index is at the first position? That would be an \(O(1)\)! But what we are interested here is the average case performance.

##3.4.2 Binary Search
The faster way of searching, but only works in **sorted** data set.

It works by getting the middle value of the data set, then compare the middle value with the value we want. If the middle value is the value we want, then we found it. If the value we want is larger than the middle value, then we will only consider the data set larger than the middle value, vice versa to the value smaller than middle value.

It is naturally recursive if you managed to observe it. It does the checking and halves the data set (or values) to search.

The time complexity of this is \(O(log_2 n)\), as the data set is halved every time. If one checking uses 1 ns, going through 10000 values only take around 13.3 ns!

The implementation is as follow:

```Java
public static int binarySearch(int [] data, int min, int max, int value) {
	if (min<max) {
		int mid=(min+max)/2;
		if (data[mid]==value) return mid;
		else if (data[mid]>value) return binarySearch(data,min,mid-1,value);
		else return binarySearch(data,mid+1,max,value);
	} else return -1; //not found
}
	
public static void main (String [] args) {
	int [] abc={1,5,6,7,8,10,34,56,821};
	int numToSearch=56;
	int index=binarySearch(abc,0,abc.length,numToSearch);
	System.out.println(numToSearch+" is at position ["+index+"]");
}

```

!!! NOTE
	* Rewrite it in loop form.
	* Rewrite it such that it supports descendingly ordered data set

##Exercise
Generate an array with 10000 random ascending numbers, get 100 numbers from the array randomly. Then perform the searching in the array by using linear search. Remember to record down how many milliseconds it took to execute such action. Repeat the search using binary search. Compare the result.

*To make the comparison valid, you might have 2 copies of array with the same random numbers, 1 for linear search, 1 for binary search. You might also loop both operations for few times and get the average result*

