#1.9 Loop Reduces Length

##1.9.1 Loop Repeats Execution
Now, write a program that accepts 2 numbers from user and calculate the mean/average of the numbers.

Modify it so that it accepts :

* 4 numbers
* 10 numbers

Your sc.nextLine() will do occupy your program by a lot and it seems that there is no way if we want to accept dynamic count of numbers. Luckily, loop is in our arsenal.

Loop causes the program to repeats the code in the block until the specified condition becomes false. If the condition is never met, then the program will continue to loop and you will start seeing your processor usage to go up because it has no way to quit from the trap! This situation is called as **infinite loop**.

##1.9.2 Flavours of Loop
There are 3 types of loop in Java. 

* **while**
```Java
while (condition) {
}
```
At start of this loop block, the condition will be checked. If it is yes, the loop will run for once, and check for the condition again. If it is no, the loop will quit and skip to the line right below the loop block.

* **do while**
```Java
do {
} while (condition)
```
It works like while, but the difference lies on the starting point. In while, the condition will be checked before the first loop runs. But for this, the condition is checked at the end of the loop. So it will at least run once regardless of the condition.

* **for**
```Java
for (initialization;condition;counter) {
}
```
The behaviour of this is similar to while, except it allows you to put the code in initialization (run befores the loop starts) and counter (run after every loop execution). Ideally it is for situation where you need to run the loop for a fixed number of time.

Here comes the decision time - Which flavour should I use?

* There is no strict rule on this, but we should strive for the maximum convenience.
* Use **while** when you don’t need any initialization and counter
* Use **do while** when you need to run the code at least once
* Use **for** when you have initialization and counter things to do. If you are aware of it, for loop can be replaced with while loop + initialization + counter.

##1.9.3 Checkpoint
Now, modify your program that let the user to input 10 numbers using for loop. Isn’t that impressively short now? :D By modifying the statement in loop condition, we can change the number of user input we want easily. This convenience is called as **scalability**.

##1.9.4 Nested Loop
If you need to have loop inside loop, or recursive loop, you can do that by placing the block within a parent loop block.
```Java
while (???) {
	for (???) {
	}
}
```

##Exercise
* **Project Euler No. 1**

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23. Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000. 

<center>Answer : 233168</center>
    
*There is a way to solve this without using loop, but do with it loop first, then do the simpler way.*


____
* **Project Euler No. 2**

Each new term in the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number" target="_blank">Fibonacci sequence</a> is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be: 

<center> **1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...** </center>

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms. 

<center>Answer : 4613732</center>

____
* **Project Euler No. 4**

A <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palindrome" target="_blank">palindromic number</a> reads the same both ways. For example : 99, 909, 1001, 2002, 1221, 13421 and 97879. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99.

Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers. 

<center>Answer : 906609</center>