#2.2 Object Definition

##2.2.1 Object vs Class
In Java, class refers to the type of object. When we talk about creating an object, it can be referred to generating an instance of Object. In order to create an object, we need to define the content of the object first. In previous section, we already made a Student class with name and score as attribute.

##2.2.2 Static vs Non-Static/Instance Variable
As we grasped the idea that the definition of name and score is actually equivalent to using array, so the non-static or instance variable is pretty easy to understand. Recall that the value that instance variable holds is different from object instance to object instance (every student has different name and score), static variable is the opposite. It is independent to object instance. Hence, We use the class name to refer to it. 

Ultimately, we can conclude that static variable belongs to the class and instance/non-static variable belongs to the object instance.

##2.2.3 Definition of Static Variable
It is easy to declare a static variable. The process is identical to instance variable, except that you need to add a **static** keyword.
```Java
public class Student {
	public static String someStr="Hello!";
}
```
In my main class...
```Java
public class someclass {
	public static void main (String [] args) {
		System.out.println(Student.someStr); //Prints Hello!
	}
}
```

##2.2.4 Static vs Non-Static/Instance Method
The idea of static and non-static method is even easier. In a class, we used to define method with **static** keyword, so we refer it by class name. Non-static method allows we us to invoke it with object instance, like instance variable. But... the reason for actual implementation is rather lame (it is just to follow OOP design). 

Let's create a static method that prints the student name with a student object as argument.
```Java
public class Student{
	public String name;

	public static void printName (Student s) {
		System.out.println(s.name);
	}
}
public class someclass{

	public static void main (String [] args) {
		Student s=new Student();
		s.name="LOL";
		Student.printName(s);
	}

}
```
This is how it looks like, with non-static method.
```Java
public class Student{
	public String name;

	public void printName () {
		System.out.println(this.name); //this refers to the source object of invocation.
	}
}
public class someclass{

	public static void main (String [] args) {
		Student s=new Student();
		s.name="LOL";
		s.printName();
	}
	
}
```
Both can do the same job.