#4.2 Inheritance

##4.2.1 Mummy, why do I look like you?
With the **inheritance feature** of object oriented programming, a class can be derived from another class.

Reasons :

* Scalability – You can derive many classes and the classes can be derived again.
* Modularity – Removing the child class doesn’t affect the parent class. You can use parent class to store objects from different child classes or reverse via typecasting.
* Efficiency – We don’t have to rewrite the class again. Update of the parent class also affects the child classes. Change once then it will reflect to the child classes. Attributes & methods from the parent class are inherited by child class.

Let’s say we have different type of schools – Kindergarten, Primary School & Secondary School. We also have Student – Kindergarten student, primary school student, & secondary school student.

* First, we create a school class.
```Java
public class School {
	public String name;
	public Student [] std;
	public int count;
	
	public School (String n) {
		this.name=n;
		this.std=new Student[100];
		this.count=0;
	}
	
	public void addStudent (Student s) {
		this.std[this.count++]=s;
	}
}
```
* You might ask, why don’t we put `static` keyword to addStudent method? Non-static method is created for realizing the coding style of OOP. When compiled, the method will be changed into this :
```Java
public static void addStudent(School this, Student s) {
	this.std[this.count++]=s;
}
```
Both performs the same thing, but with slight difference in the coding style.
* Then we can proceed to create the child school types, example :
```Java
public class Kindergarten extends School {
	
}
```
Do the same for primary school and secondary school as well.
* Since we have the student class created already, we only need to create the kindergarten student, primary school & secondary school student.

##4.2.2 Encapsulation
Encapsulation is used to protect the attributes & methods in a class.

Just like a String object, we can never access to the char array inside it, because the char array has `private` property. Classes from outside cannot access it, thus cannot temper the value.

This is how it is done:
```Java
private String name;
private Student [] std;
private int count;
```

Sadly, in Java, we don’t have read only property, which means if we want to get the value of a `private` attribute, we need to create a method that returns the value. This is called as `accessor` method or `get` method.
```Java
public String getName() {
	return this.name;
}
```
There is also a `mutator` method or `set` method.
```Java
public void setName(String n) {
	this.name=n;
}
```
The advantage of this compared to the usual value assignment to variable is that you can perform filter or value updates in this method.

Another keyword for encapsulation is `protected` keyword, which the child classes can access to the attributes & methods, but not for anything outside.